[Blogs](https://hudsonnock.github.io/Blog), [Home](https://hudsonnock.github.io/)

All humans are inherently selfish in so far as they desire their own happiness. But instead of trying to minimize this selfishness, society embraced it, getting it to do its bidding. This can be clearly seen as resulting in a capitalist system, where the main idea is if something will provide worth (and so happiness) to a group of humans, then the group will pay for it giving money to the businessman, thus the businessman is incentivised to help the group. Notice though that the business man isn't incentivised to help the group because he wants to help, but rather because of the money he can gain from helping. However, when looking at this morally it is clear that this system doesn't optimize for happiness. For example, are we to say that a famous multi millionaire soccer player should get paid that much? Surely if he was paid a million dollars less and that million dollars were donated to an effective charity he would still be financially incentivised to be a soccer player, he would be almost as happy as he was with the extra million dollars, and the extra million dollars would go on to positively affect countless people. Another problem that is encountered is if there is a group that doesn't have any money, then no one is financially incentivised to help them as they won't make any money out of it. A common reply to this is government intervention in these situations, however, what if the people are in a different country, or if they are animals instead of humans. These problems that arise out of capitalism could be reduced in magnitude if there were more people willing to help those in need or donate money to charities, all of which goes against our selfish nature (at least when it would come to large sums of money that would impact the donator). So, how do we convince people to give more or work for these areas? The largest and easiest way to gain this positive impact isn't to debate with people that they should be doing X or Y, but rather to have a moral philosophy class within highschools and ask them a question. Rather than just asking "What do you want to be when you grow up?", you could also ask "What should you do with your life that will cause the most good?". You could ask them if they think factory farming is wrong, and if it is, is it wrong to pay for it? You could ask them if we should donate to charities, and if so how much? This isn't a moral philosophy class where they would teach all the different types of moral viewpoints, but rather a class ment to pose real life questions whose answers have an impact for the rest of their life. The reason this would be more effective than debates, is because most people already agree that giving money to charity is good or that factory farming is wrong, but because most people don’t take the time to earnestly reflect on these ideas and look at them through a practical lens of what they should do about it, no change gets made. With technology moving at the pace that it is, maybe it’s time for schools to put wisdom back in the curriculum.
